---
author: jx tsai
comments: true
date: 2006-10-01 22:39:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.jxtsai.info/0928/2006/10/01/20061001%e7%b6%b2%e6%91%98/
slug: 20061001%e7%b6%b2%e6%91%98
title: 20061001網摘
wordpress_id: 536
categories:
- ordinary or complaints
---

[農村中小學布局調整工作的通知](http://www.moe.edu.cn/edoas/website18/info20238.htm)

[中國國家級貧困縣目錄](http://zhidao.baidu.com/question/13160865.html)

下面這則，是人權組織Human Right Wach 9月27日電子報上的消息。

好像HRW的網站也被GFW檔下，所以我把內文都貼上來吧。

China: Beijing Closes Schools for Migrant Children in Pre-Olympic Clean-Up

(New York, September 25, 2006) – Over the past two weeks, Beijing  
municipal authorities have shut down more than 50 schools for children of  
migrant workers, Human Rights Watch said today. The schools' closure –  
part of a campaign to close all unregistered schools for migrants by the  
end of September – threatens to leave tens of thousands of children  
without access to education, in violation of several of Beijing's obligations  
under international law.  
The campaign, which began four months ago, appears designed to  
discourage migrants from staying in the capital. In mid-September, city  
officials discussed expelling a million migrant laborers from Beijing for  
the duration of the Olympic Games.  
"Beijing is spending over $5 billion to prepare for the 2008 Games, yet at  
the same time it's denying a basic right to migrant workers' children, most  
of whom are unable to access state-run schools," said Sophie Richardson,  
deputy director of Human Rights Watch's Asia Division. "Beijing appears  
to be moving 'faster, higher, and stronger' toward limiting – not ensuring  
– migrant children's access to education, all in the name of the  
Olympics."  
On July 12, 2006, the Beijing Municipality issued the "Notice of the  
General Office of the Beijing Municipality People's Government on the  
Work of Strengthening the Safety of Non-Approved Migrant Population  
Self-Schools." That document set a deadline of September 30 for the  
"clean up and rectification" of all unregistered schools through "dispersion,  
standardization and closure." According to the document, 239 unregistered  
migrant schools in Beijing provide education to more than 90,000  
children.  
In some cases, the Beijing authorities have dispatched large numbers of  
police to close particularly popular schools. On August 29, more than 90  
policemen forced the evacuation of the Weimenkou school of Shijingshan  
district. Petitions to the Beijing Commission on Education, signed by  
hundreds of parents in support of certain schools and denouncing the  
brutality of the closures, remain unanswered.  
The Beijing government has justified the wave of closures on the grounds  
that many migrant schools are unregistered and substandard. They quoted  
the lack of qualified teachers, inadequate or dangerous facilities, and  
noncompliance with hygiene regulations. However, school operators say  
that the authorities arbitrarily refuse them registration or impose  
unreasonable conditions, such as possession of half a million yuan, about  
US$63,000, effectively preventing them from gaining legal status.  
The director of a school closed last month, which had served about 1,000  
students, told Human Rights Watch, "All of this is because of the  
Olympics. They close the schools not because the schools are no good, but  
because they do not want this to attract further migration to Beijing. Of  
course I have applied for a permit to the government, but they never give  
it to you. Above all, they want to control and limit the development of  
these migrant schools."  
While governments have the right to license and regulate schools, China's  
international legal obligations require it to provide all children with an  
adequate and nondiscriminatory education. China may not arbitrarily deny  
education to children of migrant workers.  
"The reason self-run migrant schools exist is precisely because the  
government has failed to provide free and compulsory education for all as  
it is obligated under domestic and international law," said Richardson.  
"Before closing down the only education to which migrant children have  
access, the government should guarantee their ability to enroll in state-run  
schools."  
Although the newly revised Compulsory Education Law, which came into  
effect on September 1, states that children of migrant laborers must be  
enrolled in local state-run schools, in reality administrative and financial  
hurdles bar most migrant children from enrolling.  
Under Beijing education bureau regulations, only registered migrants who  
can produce the "five certificates" – a temporary residence permit, work  
permit, proof of residence, certificate from the place of origin, and  
household registration booklet – can enroll their children in state schools.  
An estimated 90 percent of migrant families do not have all five  
documents.  
Even for those who can obtain the necessary documents, the cost of state  
schools can be prohibitive for poor migrant families. State schools may  
charge for transportation, meals, books or activities. Only 62 percent of  
the estimated 370,000 children of migrant worker families living in  
Beijing attend state-run schools.  
On September 15, Science and Engineering University Professor Hu  
Xingtou and Beijing Duanfeng Practice Lawyer Li Fangping submitted to  
the Beijing municipal government a report that concluded, "On the face of  
it, it seems that all the … schools of Beijing have opened their doors  
unconditionally to migrant children. But the reality is entirely different ...  
The dream of equal access to compulsory education remains as distant as  
ever."  
"The Chinese government should ensure that all children have access to  
education by removing administrative and financial obstacles to school  
enrollment, and that migrant children whose schools it has closed are  
immediately enrolled in other schools," said Richardson.  
For more of Human Rights Watch's work on China, please visit:  
[http://www.hrw.org/doc?t=asia&c=china](http://www.hrw.org/doc?t=asia&c=china)
